I would like to analyze Nonavox
from the perspective of the
phases of product development
that we have defined four
phases that are the problem
solution fit, problem market
fit, the growth engine
and finally scale.
And you did some things well and
others didn't, and the mistakes you
made can be explained from this
perspective.
Could we make a development?
Well, because in a first phase Nonavox
emerges from my experience as
a country manager of Glossybox
in Spain for Rocket Internet.
Glossybox is a cosmetic
subscription model, so while I'm
launching Glossybox in Spain
I realize that the subscription
model is a very interesting model
at the economic level because
you have a very good recurrence,
you have very high margins and
it's also the typical business
model in which it's a
win-win.
That is, you win the brand that collaborates
with you, the customer wins because
it receives more value than it is
paying and in the middle you win
because you have very high margins
and a very high recurrence.
Therefore, here is a key point in
the business model that was ultravalidated,
because that model you were running
in another sector and
then you had checked that
it works, that the accounts
come out, that the brands
give you free products and
you charge a subscription
to customers.
That mechanism was...
It was working very well in the cosmetics
sector and what we saw was that
in the cosmetics sector the costumer
live value was not too long, that
is, at four or five months the
clients were bored and were
down because they already had
very many samples and did
not have the power to try
it all.
So, in the desire to look for a
market in which this costume live
value would be longer, wider,
we find ourselves in the baby
sector and in the baby sector from
birth until they are two years
old grow so fast that there
is a hole to send them
different products continuously
without the subscriber,
in this case the mom, losing
interest.
You had to validate that what
worked in the cosmetics sector
would work in the baby sector,
not only would it work,
but the custom would be bigger
because the lifetime would
be longer, more months.
Basically, with this more elaborate
pitch we got 40,000 euros of funding,
this was in November 2011
that we were surrounded by cabides
and partners and what they asked
us was, you have these 40,000
euros to develop a MVP, get
the brands of the baby sector
to give you up to 5,000 boxes,
that you can fill 5,000 boxes
without product costs by the
brands and that you can
get the first customers.
With these 40,000 euros in three
months we launched the web, achieved
the first 15 clients and
filled the first 5,000 product
boxes without cost by brands
in the sector.
That is, the first step that could
be problem solution fit because you
validated it perfectly because in
how many months?
Three.
In three months you validated that
the brands were ready and
validated you on a very small scale
because you said 15 clients,
15 clients is almost, you tell
them around, but at least
that seemed to make sense
that people saw value.
justly.
With this small validation of the
problem solution fit, cabides gives
us 110,000 euros more to start
validating the capture channels.
Hear, we have already validated that there
is, it seems that there is a hole in
the market, now we will validate which
channels work for us and to what extent
they work for us to capture customers
on the v2c side for this point.
I would tell you that at this point
when you have 15 customers and you have
to have thousands are not the capture channels,
that is, you have to validate
that there are no 15 crazy.
Yes, that goes a little further.
There is a market.
You validated that the problem existed,
that the solution existed, it is
true that you validated it because
there were people who were
willing to pay for it.
I think the next challenge is to say
there are people, but how many are they?
Let's see if they are 15.
justly.
So this was good, this was already
March 2012 and with these 110,
000 euros we started to invest in marketing,
but as always when you start investing,
well because you are trying
a lot of things and you still don'
t have the metrics as very clear,
but well with the little we started
to invest suddenly we have a thousand
customers, they call us in
Italy for a weekend, for a
Global Celebrator Week, I don'
t know what, of startups and that
weekend we come out with 750,
000 euros committed to
investment and with the commitment
on our part to launch Nonavox
in Italy and Germany.
That is to say you were in a good
place really because if you had a thousand
customers and it hadn't cost too
much to catch up.
These things are known quickly,
that is, when you go out to the market
and it doesn't cost you much to
capture, not only online, but
sometimes it seems a little bit
of wipes or common sense, but
when you are a very good product
you tell it to people around
and people around want to buy it.
It is very simple, many times we
go crazy, but you did, I imagine,
not much investment, because
you were, how many there were?
110,000 and we already started to have
a little structure, we had invested
very little in that stage.
I think you could say that you
were close to the Product Market
Fit because at least you were seeing
that you were bringing value,
which I don't know if at that
time you had checked that the clients
stayed, probably
didn't give you even time.
Of course, we had checked that
we were having good acceptance
and that the three boxes we had
sent, because we had not given
time to send more, because the
reviews were good by the clients,
it is true that there were
bad reviews also that were not
serving to improve, but well,
the three months had been left,
but it is true that we could
not have visibility of the
Costumer Lifetime Value because
we were sending boxes for three
months.
Yes, but the signals were actually
very good.
In the end, when you have to validate
a business model, it is that
you draw the canvas and it is almost
a checklist, that is, we have validated
that this people like, because
you were validating it
because the reviews were good.
Are you sure they will be with
us for 15 months?
No, but it's not 15
months.
Well, then you are at that point,
everything was very good and we
started to internationalize.
He warms your heads with people.
We all warm up, suddenly it makes
us all like a lot of illusion.
We see that in Spain it is growing
fast, it is true that in those
years, 2011-2012, it was now as
they are with blockchain and with all
that kind of things, at that
time were the subscription models.
There were subscription models
of virtually anything you
can imagine.
It was like Birchbox in the
United States raising millions
of dollars, Rocket Internet
with Glossybox was doing it
super well in Europe and
they were starting to come out
subscription models everywhere.
And it was beginning to have very interesting
successes, that as we have seen in
the financing module,
because it is true that sometimes the
sexiness of the market also influences
and that there are other people
making a lot of money or there
are successes in the same vertical
that you are doing or are
raising very large rounds, investors
are served as validation.
Then, at that moment of boom
of subscription models and
with the good initial metrics
we were beginning to have,
we all excited and launched
to internationalize.
Well, what happened?
What happened?
Well then...
Because you were in a very good
position, that is...
We were in a very good position
that now looking back,
what we did was skip
one of the stages.
So, without having validated
what our channels were and without
having the clear key metrics, which
are the CPA, the costumer life value
and the churn, we launched to
open new markets.
In July, or four months after
launching Spain, we had four
boxes sent to Spain, we launched
Italy and in October we
launched Germany.
Four months.
Four boxes and we had four months
starting to do attempted marketing.
We go to another market, but not
only go to another market,
but at that time no one is aware
that to sell in Germany or
to sell in Italy by digital
we do not need a physical
office there.
So we opened a physical office
in Italy, with equipment in Italy,
we set up a company in Italy
and we do the same in Germany.
Automatically, our structure,
which was super simple and super
link, complicates a barbarism.
We are starting to get duplicate positions.
We have three marketing directors,
three country managers, three
logistics suppliers, three
box suppliers.
That is, it begins to complicate
the thing, costs increase and
the corporate structure also
increases, because we also have
three companies that all belong
to a holding company.
We are in a time of complication.
Beyond the money, because at
that time we had money, we
had raised almost a million
euros.
The problem is that we lose focus,
which is one of the things we have
talked about and we will talk about
in subsequent classes, the
importance of focus.
That is, at the stage we
were in, our focus had to be
on validating the capture channels.
And our focus is, suddenly, on traveling
a lot, managing a much bigger
team, starting to validate
other kinds of things when
we didn't have the base.
It is that you have skipped the
third phase that we have called
the growth engine.
And it's a pity because there are
many companies that do it just
to scale before they get to Product
Market Fit.
And Product Market Fit is the
most complicated thing to
get, but you got it, because people
were paying, people saw value,
and so on.
You were taking a path,
a very good path, and
you committed the imprudence,
which also pushed us to commit
it, to skip the third phase
and to go straight up the ladder
when the channels through which
we had to grow were not
entirely clear.
It's like we've drawn before, if
you see a forest and you have to run
through that forest, you'll stumble
a thousand times.
But if you first do what you
do is walk through the forest,
you can already run around.
In fact, this was the main
reason why we realized that
that very loquid structure
we had mounted had no
meaning.
When we had already mounted all the
equipment and with all the
complexity I supposed, we started
trying to make the phase that touched
us that was the validation
of the capture channels.
And what happened there?
That when we started trying
to unify the campaigns we realized
we were losing a lot of business
intelligence because we had
given so much autonomy to
the country managers who were
doing things each in their
own way.
We were not making a common
strategy.
This made us realize that
it was being a real madness,
because our idea was to encourage
country managers to
perform for their
country.
What did we like that?
That if, for example, the community
manager of Italy discovered a fantastic
way to sell through Instagram,
instead of sharing it with the
rest of the countries so that
we all benefit from that
learning, she would be silent
because she was also encouraged
to see if Italy was going better.
Then, suddenly we realized that
we were losing a lot of good practices
and a lot of learning that
we could take advantage
of between countries.
I think it is the fruit of...
We could do a detailed analysis
of the mistakes made in internationalization,
but it is the
result of the
rush.
But really, I think the key is
not those mistakes you would
make like that detail.
The key is that you did
it too soon.
Too soon, because then when we
realized all this and closed all
the offices we had in Europe and
we brought it all to Spain and
started to manage, that at that time
there were already six countries,
but we managed them all from
Madrid with a much smaller
team, when we started to make
the stage that had corresponded
to us, the one of validating
the growth engine, the metrics
we achieved were good, that is,
at that time we captured the leads
to 40 cents, super qualified leads,
which we multiplied the investment
by 4, we recovered
it in the month 2, that
is, it was a CPA of 15 euros
with a costumer live value
of 120 euros in profit.
And moreover, it is that here your
growth engine or your channel
channel of your customer capture
channel was purely digital.
Purely 100%.
That was, then the mistake was that
you directly developed
other channels, because you did
not know validated on a small scale,
but if you had done that, if from
Madrid, without getting crazy,
without a multinational structure
and you would have put you
to validate how it was the
best way to capture customers
in Italy or the like.
I think we have to have made the
way, the reverse path that now seeing
it from now on is the most logical
of hearing, I start in Spain and
when I have validated my channels
in Spain, that are those strategies
that we have managed to develop
capto customers for 15 euros through
leads capture, through test, then
with inbound marketing, we have
a whole strategy in which I have
that validated, with that I open
Germany and replicate it in
Germany, I open Italy and
replicate it in Italy.
Especially with a very scalable
product.
Well, the only thing that wasn'
t scalable or the marks were worth
it for all...
No, but in the end we discovered that
with an account manager per country
more or less and without having
to travel, we telematically
achieved, that is, the value
proposal was so potent for
brands that with a aunt calling
brands we got it.
And above all you just needed people
for that side of the customers,
for the brands, for the capture
you could have taken
directly from here.
Centralized marketing and doing something
more scalable of I have a type
of campaign that works for me in
Madrid, which is what we end up doing.
Mother's Day campaign.
We designed it in Spanish, then
it was translated into all languages,
the creativities were replicated
and it was replicated in all
countries.
Did this model work
or not?
This model, i.e., looking back I would
say it was a model for launching
a viable business, but it wasn'
t a model for launching an investmentable
business.
That is, with less investment, more
steady pace and so on, we actually
become profitable in Germany,
Austria, France and Spain.
That is, it was a profitable model
and it was a model that made sense,
what it wasn't was an invertible
model to get it sold for 100 million
euros and those models' rhythms
were totally inviable.
It was possible because you proved it.
If you cost you to capture 15 euros
and you take 25 a month to each of
your customers and above are with
you 15 months, because the numbers
come out phenomenal.
What happens is that you have already
committed the mistake to finish, you
have made the mistake from this perspective
of the phases of business development,
the product, the business model,
to skip the phase, to validate the
channels and how money directly entered
to scale, above international
expansion with the risks that it
entails and that is good, because
it ended up addicting the company.
It penalized us, we lost a year
and a half and a million euros
to expand and then bring
it all back and for when we wanted
to have those clear and validated
metrics, we had a valuation
already too high for more money
to enter and they could make
one in ten.